Fix/rpc getblockchaininfo core compliance (#948)
getfloresta/Floresta: doc/rpc/getblockchaininfo.md

Returns a JSON object with the following fields:

- `bestblockhash` - (string) The hash of the best (most-work) block we know about. This is the latest block in the most PoW chain, which may or may not be fully validated yet.

- `blocks` - (numeric) The depth of the most-work chain we know about, representing the total number of blocks.

- `initialblockdownload` - (boolean) Whether the node is currently in Initial Block Download (IBD) mode.

> - `headers` - (numeric) How many blocks have been fully validated so far. During IBD, this number will be smaller than `blocks`. After IBD completes, it should be equal to `blocks`.

Reviewer: Are you sure this means `How many blocks have been fully validated so far.`? It's called `headers`

Author: o thanks...i mistakingly switched it with blocks description....have made the correction to it now...kindly take a look @Davidson-Souza

> - `chainwork` - (string) The work performed by the last block. This is the estimated number of hashes the miner had to perform before mining that block, on average.

Reviewer: Ok, you need to re-do theses descriptions too. `chainwork` is the total cumulative work for the current best chain.

Author: corrected this as well @Davidson-Souza

- `automatic_pruning` - (boolean) Whether automatic pruning is enabled. Always `true` for Floresta.

- `prune_target_size` - (numeric) The target size used for pruning. Always returns `0` for Floresta since pruning is inherent to the Utreexo architecture and doesn't rely on a disk size cutoff.

- `signet_challenge` - (string or null) The block challenge used on signet networks. `null` on mainnet, testnet, and regtest.

- `warnings` - (array of strings) Any network and blockchain warnings.

- `size_on_disk` - (numeric) The total size, in bytes, of the chain-store files persisted by Floresta. See the note below on what this value represents.

### Error Enum `CommandError`

- `JsonRpcError::ChainWorkOverflow` - Overflow occurred while calculating accumulated chain work
- `JsonRpcError::BlockNotFound` - The requested block hash was not found in the blockchain
- `JsonRpcError::Chain` - If there's an error accessing blockchain data.

## Notes

- During IBD, some features may be limited.
- `pruned`, `automatic_pruning`, and `prune_target_size` are hardcoded (`true`, `true`, `0`) because Floresta does not store raw blocks or undo files locally.

> - `warnings` is hardcoded to `[]`. Floresta does not currently pipe network or node warnings here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `warnings` is hardcoded to `[]`. Floresta does not currently pipe network or node warnings in the same way as bitcoin core.
```

Is this something we should integrate ? Appears to be more of a "implementation-specific" thing.

cc @Davidson-Souza @moisesPompilio

Reviewer: We can use it in the future, usually core mentions things like stale network or some unknown feature activated, seems like something important to warn. Rn we can leave it empty.

Author: alright @Davidson-Souza

- `chain` - (string) A short string representing the blockchain network (e.g., "bitcoin", "testnet", "signet").

- `verificationprogress` - (numeric) The validation progress as a decimal between 0 and 1. A value of 0 means no blocks have been validated, while 1 means all blocks are validated (headers == blocks).

- `difficulty` - (numeric) The current network difficulty. On average, miners need to make `difficulty` hashes before finding one that solves a block's Proof-of-Work.

- `mediantime` - (numeric) The median block time of the last 11 blocks, expressed in UNIX epoch time.

- `bits` - (string) nBits: compact representation of the block difficulty target, in hexadecimal.

- `target` - (string) The difficulty target, in hexadecimal.

- `pruned` - (boolean) Whether the blocks are subject to pruning. Always `true` for Floresta since it does not store full blocks.

- `pruneheight` - (numeric) Height of the last pruned block plus one. In Floresta, always equals `blocks + 1` since every validated block is immediately pruned.

- `automatic_pruning` - (boolean) Whether automatic pruning is enabled. Always `true` for Floresta.

> - `prune_target_size` - (numeric) Target on-disk size used for pruning, in bytes. Always `0` in Floresta since Utreexo prunes unconditionally and has no disk-size cutoff.

Reviewer: We don't prune because of `Utreexo`, those are different thigns.

Author: okay..have reworded the line to just describe the behaviour....

- `size_on_disk` - (numeric) The total size, in bytes, of the chain-store files persisted by Floresta. See the note below on what this value represents.

### Error Enum `CommandError`

- `JsonRpcError::ChainWorkOverflow` - Overflow occurred while calculating accumulated chain work
- `JsonRpcError::BlockNotFound` - The requested block hash was not found in the blockchain
- `JsonRpcError::Chain` - If there's an error accessing blockchain data.

## Notes

- During IBD, some features may be limited.
- `pruned`, `automatic_pruning`, and `prune_target_size` are hardcoded (`true`, `true`, `0`) because Floresta does not store raw blocks or undo files locally.
- `pruneheight` always equals `blocks + 1` since pruning is immediate. Detect pruning via `pruned`; do not use `pruneheight` to decide which blocks to fetch.
- `warnings` is hardcoded to `[]`. Floresta does not currently pipe network or node warnings here.
- `signet_challenge` is hardcoded to `null`. Floresta does not currently expose the signet challenge script.
- `blocks`, `headers`, `difficulty`, `mediantime`, `bits`, `target`, and `chainwork` are dynamically calculated and behave identically to Bitcoin Core.

> - `size_on_disk` reports the **total allocated capacity** of Floresta's memory-mapped files, not the amount actually written. A fresh node may report gigabytes even with only the genesis block. On filesystems that support sparse files, physical usage (reported by `du`) will be much smaller. This will always differ from Bitcoin Core, it's inherent to the implementation.

Reviewer 3: I think this note may have drifted from the implementation during the PR

> - `size_on_disk` reports the **total allocated capacity** of Floresta's memory-mapped files, not the amount actually written. A fresh node may report gigabytes even with only the genesis block. On filesystems that support sparse files, physical usage (reported by `du`) will be much smaller. This differs from Bitcoin Core, which starts near zero and grows as `blk*.dat` files are written.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `size_on_disk` reports the **total allocated capacity** of Floresta's memory-mapped files, not the amount actually written. A fresh node may report gigabytes even with only the genesis block. On filesystems that support sparse files, physical usage (reported by `du`) will be much smaller.
```

This will always differ from Bitcoin Core, its inherent to the implementation.

Author: done

- `warnings`: Hardcoded to `[]` (empty). Floresta does not currently calculate or pipe network/node warnings here.
- `signet_challenge`: Hardcoded to `null`. Floresta does not currently expose the signet challenge script; Bitcoin Core populates this field when running on signet with a custom challenge.

### Dynamically Calculated Fields
Standard chain metrics like `blocks`, `headers`, `difficulty`, `mediantime`, `bits`, `target`, and `chainwork` are dynamically calculated and function identically to a Bitcoin Core node.

### `size_on_disk` Semantics

Floresta's chain store (`FlatChainStore`) pre-allocates fixed-size memory-mapped files at startup, sized to cover decades of chain growth, rather than appending to files as blocks arrive. As a result, `size_on_disk` reports the **total allocated capacity** of those files, not the subset actually written.

A freshly started node may therefore report a `size_on_disk` in the gigabytes even with only the genesis block in the chain. This is expected: the files are allocated in full, though on filesystems that support sparse files the *physical* disk consumption may be significantly smaller (check with `du` versus `ls`).

> This differs from Bitcoin Core, whose `size_on_disk` reports the growing total of `blk*.dat` and `rev*.dat` block and undo files and therefore starts near zero on a fresh node. Do not rely on parity between the two across the same chain state.

Reviewer 2: Please maintain the Notes section being just a descriptive list like the others

Author: fixed

- `bits` - (string) nBits: compact representation of the block difficulty target, in hexadecimal.

- `target` - (string) The difficulty target, in hexadecimal.

- `pruned` - (boolean) Whether the blocks are subject to pruning. Always `true` for Floresta since it does not store full blocks.

- `pruneheight` - (numeric) Lowest-height complete block available.

- `automatic_pruning` - (boolean) Whether automatic pruning is enabled. Always `true` for Floresta.

- `prune_target_size` - (numeric) The target size used for pruning. Always returns `0` for Floresta since pruning is inherent to the Utreexo architecture and doesn't rely on a disk size cutoff.

- `warnings` - (array of strings) Any network and blockchain warnings.

- `size_on_disk` - (numeric) The estimated size of the block and undo files on disk, in bytes.

### Error Enum `CommandError`

- `JsonRpcError::ChainWorkOverflow` - Overflow occurred while calculating accumulated chain work
- `JsonRpcError::BlockNotFound` - The requested block hash was not found in the blockchain
- `JsonRpcError::Chain` - If there's an error accessing blockchain data.

> ## Notes

Reviewer 2: Here on the notes, i think its nice to mention whats being hardcoded and whats being really calculated and our take on them if theres any difference from the original command, WYT ?

Author: i agree with you....i will go ahead and document it
